docs/common-coreboot-docs/checkbox.md: add file (#239)
Dasharo/docs: docs/common-coreboot-docs/checkbox.md

# Checkbox usage (Ubuntu 22.04)

## Introduction

Checkbox is a system testing platform for Ubuntu. It aims to provide a common
framework to run all types of tests, from hardware tests, to command line tests,

> unit tests or desktop tests. This documentation describes usage of checkbox on

Author: changed

Ubuntu 22.04, but it can work on older versions Ubuntu.

## Download and install Checkbox

> 1. Open terminal and type in below-described commands to install Checkbox and

Author: changed

all its dependencies:

    ```bash
    $ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:hardware-certification/public
    $ sudo apt-get update
    $ sudo apt-get install checkbox-ng plainbox-provider-resource-generic \
    plainbox-provider-certification-client plainbox-provider-checkbox \
    canonical-certification-client
    ```

## Set up testing environment

To achieve the best results from the tests and do many of them, we should fill
as many internal and external slots as possible. Before running the checkbox,
try to fill the slots if the DUT has one:

External:
* Memory Card Reader
* USB Ports
* Monitor Ports
* Ethernet Ports
* Headphone and Microphone Jacks
* Thunderbolt Ports
* Power Socket
* PCMCIA or ExpressCard slot

Internal:
* DIMM/RAM slots
* SATA ports
* PCI/PCIe slots
* M.2 slots
* TPM header
* Other slots

> In order for the tests to not require any interference after their startup,

Reviewer: I think, that we should split this section into two separate: one with prerequisites (modules which could be necessary to do the tests) and the second with a description of how to prepare the environment.

Author: separated

    │        blockers only)                                                        │
    │    ( ) After suspend automated USB 3 write/read/compare tests on storage     │
    │        devices                                                               │
    │    ( ) After suspend automated USB write/read/compare tests on storage       │
    │        devices                                                               │
    │    ( ) After suspend reference tests                                         │
    │    ( ) After suspend reference tests (automated)                             │
    │    ( ) After suspend reference tests (certification blockers only)           │
    │    ( ) After suspend tests (discrete GPU automated)                          │
    │    ( ) After suspend tests (discrete GPU manual)                             │
    │    ( ) After suspend tests (discrete GPU)                                    │
    │    ( ) After suspend tests (discrete GPU, certification blockers only)       |
            .
            .
            . etc.
    └──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
    ```

> 1. Select test suites (`SPACE` - select, `ARROWS` - navigation, `Enter` -

Reviewer: We should add here that marking the first option starts the full check.

Author: added

    │[X] + Graphics tests                                                          │
    │[X] + Informational tests                                                     │
    │[X] + Input Devices tests                                                     │
    │[X] + Memory tests                                                            │
    │[X] + Miscellaneous tests                                                     │
    │[X] + Mobile broadband tests                                                  │
    │[X] + Non-device specific networking tests                                    │
    │[X] + Optical Drive tests                                                     │
    │[X] + Power Management tests                                                  │
    │[X] + Suspend tests                                                           │
    │[X] + TPM 2.0 (Trusted Platform Module)                                       │
    │[X] + Touchpad tests                                                          │
            .
            .
            . etc.
    └──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
    ```

> 1. Press `T` to start the testing procedure. You can be asked about hardware in

Reviewer: This point should be split into two. The first one is about how to start the procedure and the second one is about the hardware listed below.

Author: splited

    ```

2. `launcher` command lets you customize checkbox experience. To use it, you
   need to create `config_file.ini` and start run checkbox like bellow:

    ```bash
    checkbox-cli launcher config_file.ini
    ```

For more details about this commands and also other visit
[checkboc-cli](https://checkbox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/using.html#).

## Troubleshooting

When somehow checkbox will stop work you can resume previous session.
To do this open terminal and run following command:

```bash
sudo checkbox-cli
```

If at least on machine is 1 incomplete session:

```bash
 Do you want to resume session 'session_title-2022-07-06T13.09.22'?
  r => resume this session
  n => next session
  c => create new session
  d => delete old sessions
[rncd]:
```

Type in `r` to resume stopped session. You can also create new session or
delete old session by typing the appropriate letter.

```bash
What do you want to do with that job?
  s => skip that job
  p => mark it as passed and continue
  f => mark it as failed and continue
  r => run it
[spfr]:
```

Decide what do you want with the last test and type in the appropriate letter.

> After this your checkbox session will be resumed.

Reviewer: I would ask you, after making corrections, to run the file through a validation program

Author: You mean pre-commit?

Reviewer: In this case I mean some tool like `grammarly` to check the correctness of the grammar side of the documentation.

Author: I used grammarly

# Checkbox usage (Ubuntu 22.04)

## Introduction

> Checkbox is a system testing platform for Ubuntu. It aims to provide a common

Reviewer 2: We should add link to the project: https://checkbox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/

> Checkbox is a system testing platform for Ubuntu. It aims to provide a common

Author: applied

framework to run all types of tests, from hardware tests, to command line tests,
unit tests or desktop tests. This document describes the usage of Checkbox on

> Ubuntu 22.04, but it can work on older versions of Ubuntu.

Author: appiled

## Prerequisites

> To achieve the best results from the tests and do many of them, we should fill

Author: renamed

as many internal and external slots as possible. Before running the checkbox,
try to fill the slots if the DUT has one:

> External:

Reviewer: Please add new line before enumeration. This will enable the proper visualization.

Author: added

* Memory Card Reader

> * USB Ports

Author: appiled

> * Monitor Ports

Author: appiled

* Ethernet Ports

> * Headphone and Microphone Jacks

Author: appiled

> * Thunderbolt Ports

Author: appiled

* Power Socket
* PCMCIA or ExpressCard slot

> Internal:

Reviewer: Please add new line before enumeration. This will enable the proper visualization.

Author: added

* DIMM/RAM slots
* SATA ports
* PCI/PCIe slots
* M.2 slots
* TPM header

> * Other slots

Author: appiled

## Set up testing environment

In order for the tests to not require any interference after their startup,
perform the following steps:

To stop the screen from being locked on suspend, open the terminal and run the
following command:

```bash
 gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.lockdown disable-lock-screen 'true'
```

To execute all sudo commands without password, open the terminal and run the
following command:

```bash
sudo visudo
```

Append the following entry at the end of file to run ALL commands without a
password for a user:

```bash

> user ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD:ALL

Reviewer 2: It can be simplified into one step instead, with something like:

```
sudo sh -c 'echo "user ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD:ALL" >> /etc/sudoers'
```

Not tested, but I think you get the idea and can fix anything if needed.

```

To set up automatic login so that a password is not required during testing
reboot, poweroff etc.:

1. Press the `SUPER_KEY`, type in `Users` and click Enter. Window with options to
change should appear.

> 1. Next click the user name you want to enable and disable automatic login.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click the user name you want to enable automatic login for.
```

> 1. Then on the top right side of the window click `Unlock...` button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. On the top right side of the window click `Unlock...` button.
```

Author: appiled

> 1. You will be required to enter your user password to continue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. You will be aked to enter your user password to continue.
```

> 1. You should now be able to toggle Automatic Login button to enable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. You should now be able to toggle the `Automatic Login` button to enable.
```

> 1. Restart your system for changes to take effect.

Reviewer 2: Probably one or two screenshots would be helpful when trying to explain it the GUI-way.

But, OTOH, it is quite possible that using CLI would also be possible here to simplify the setup by pasting some commands.

Author: added one image

## Download and install Checkbox

> 1. Open the terminal and type in the below-described commands to install

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Open the terminal and type in the below commands to install
```

Author: appiled

    │        blockers only)                                                        │
    │    ( ) After suspend automated USB 3 write/read/compare tests on storage     │
    │        devices                                                               │
    │    ( ) After suspend automated USB write/read/compare tests on storage       │
    │        devices                                                               │
    │    ( ) After suspend reference tests                                         │
    │    ( ) After suspend reference tests (automated)                             │
    │    ( ) After suspend reference tests (certification blockers only)           │
    │    ( ) After suspend tests (discrete GPU automated)                          │
    │    ( ) After suspend tests (discrete GPU manual)                             │
    │    ( ) After suspend tests (discrete GPU)                                    │
    │    ( ) After suspend tests (discrete GPU, certification blockers only)       |
            .
            .
            . etc.
    └──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
    ```

> > Marking the first option starts the full automate check.

Reviewer: Improper formatting. This type of formatting will delete the numbering

Author: repaired

1. Select test suites (`SPACE` - select, `ARROWS` - navigation, `Enter` -
go to the next test suite), which you want to run. Marking the first option

> starts the full automate check. After it all modules should be displayed and you

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
starts the full automate check. After selecting the first option, all modules should be displayed and you
```

Author: appiled

> can manually uncheck some modules, which you don't want to test it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
can manually uncheck some modules, which you don't want to test.
```

    │[X] + Power Management tests                                                  │
    │[X] + Suspend tests                                                           │
    │[X] + TPM 2.0 (Trusted Platform Module)                                       │
    │[X] + Touchpad tests                                                          │
            .
            .
            . etc.
    └──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
    ```

1. Press `T` to start the testing procedure.
1. You can be asked about hardware in your machine. Just tick it truthfully and
press `T` again.

    ```bash
    ┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
    │Does this machine have this piece of hardware?                                │
    │    An Ethernet Port                              (X) YES  ( ) NO             │
    │    Camera/Capture Device                         (X) YES  ( ) NO             │
    │    USB Storage Device Connected                  (X) YES  ( ) NO             │
    └──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
    ```

> 1. When testing end, menu with test results should appear. Press `R` to rerun

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. When testing ends, menu with test results should appear. Press `R` to rerun
```

test cases, or `F` to finish.

1. After all, paths to the tests results should be displayed in terminal.
By default, they are placed in `/home/user/.local/share/checkbox-ng`.

## Additional options

> 1. `run` lets you run particular test plan or a set of jobs, but it not save any

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. `run` lets you run a particular test plan or a set of jobs, but it does save any
```

Author: appiled

>    results. Example of run one test plan:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   results. Example of running one test plan:
```

Author: appiled

    ```bash
    sudo checkbox-cli run com.canonical.certification::smoke
    ```

2. `launcher` command lets you customize checkbox experience. To use it, you
   need to create `config_file.ini` and start run checkbox like bellow:

    ```bash
    checkbox-cli launcher config_file.ini
    ```

> For more details about this commands and also other visit

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more details about this (and others) commands visit
```

Author: appiled

> [checkboc-cli](https://checkbox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/using.html#).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[checkbox-cli](https://checkbox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/using.html#).
```

Author: appiled

## Troubleshooting

> When somehow checkbox will stop work you can resume previous session.

Author: appiled

> To do this open terminal and run following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
session. To do this, open terminal and run the following command:
```

Author: appiled

```bash
sudo checkbox-cli
```

> If at least on machine is 1 incomplete session:

Author: appiled

```bash
 Do you want to resume session 'session_title-2022-07-06T13.09.22'?
  r => resume this session
  n => next session
  c => create new session
  d => delete old sessions
[rncd]:
```

> Type in `r` to resume stopped session. You can also create new session or

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Type in `r` to resume the stopped session. You can also create a new 
```

Author: appiled

> delete old session by typing the appropriate letter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
session or delete an old session by typing the appropriate letter.
```

Author: appiled

```bash
What do you want to do with that job?
  s => skip that job
  p => mark it as passed and continue
  f => mark it as failed and continue
  r => run it
[spfr]:
```

> Decide what do you want with the last test and type in the appropriate letter.

Author: applied

> After this your checkbox session will be resumed.

Author: applied
